>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>It felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>> GEORGE NOORY: And welcome
to another edition of "Beyond
Belief."
I'm George Noory with our
special guest, physicist
professor Ron Mallett, as
we talk about time travel.
As a matter of fact,
he's condensed it
into one of his works,
"Time Traveler."
The subject has
fascinated me and you
since we were kids, Ron--
>> RON MALLETT: Yes.
>> NOORY: --the possibilities
of traveling and coming back
and going into the future.
There are a couple professors
at Michigan Technological
University, and they are
perusing the website looking
for clues that they think future
time travelers may have dropped
in to see if we're being visited
by future time travelers.
Possible?
>> MALLETT: Well, it depends
on whether they're terrestrial
or extraterrestrial.
And let me be clear about that.
>> NOORY: Tell me
these differences.
>> MALLETT: OK.
The thing is is that if
we created a device here
on the Earth, it's
the device that's
going to actually
be doing the effect.
For instance, in the
work that I've done,
I've been able to show
using a mathematical model
that a circulating beam of light
will cause a twisting of space.
And if that twisting of
space is strong enough,
it will cause time to
get twisted into a loop,
and along that loop
in time, you could
go from the past to the
present to the future--
>> NOORY: And just
keeping going.
>> MALLETT: --and
you could go-- right.
The thing is is that when
you turn the device on,
that's when the effect starts.
So if you turned it
on, for instance, today
and left it on for 10 years,
someone could send information
or come back 7 years, 5 years,
all the way up to the point
that the machine was
turned on, but they
can't go earlier than that, OK?
So this actually answers
the question as far
as a terrestrial time machine.
In fact, I tell my students that
if someone claims that they're
a time traveler from the future
that you should be polite,
number one, and then second, you
should say where's your device?
Because they cannot have
materialized into nothing.
They have to have materialized
into a device, OK?
That's important.
So since a human scale-- since
we don't see time travelers
from the future, that
just simply means
that a human scale time machine
has not yet been invented.
>> NOORY: Didn't make it.
>> MALLETT: That's right.
But that's terrestrial, mind.
When I mention
extraterrestrial, that
gets into a whole
different realm.
Because since the
'90s, astrophysicist
have found what are known
as extrasolar planets.
These are actually planets
that are orbiting other suns.
>> NOORY: All over the place.
>> MALLETT: All over the place.
In fact, that's right.
They found hundreds
of these things
right just in the
neighborhood of our galaxy.
>> NOORY: That's right.
>> MALLETT: And there
are billions of galaxies.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
>> MALLETT: So the thing is
thatis what we realize is that
some of these planets
are actually too close
to their suns.
They're too hot.
Some of them were too far away.
>> NOORY: We were
lucky, weren't we?
>> MALLETT: We were lucky.
We were, you might say, part
of that class of planets which
they now have-- in fact, the
title of that class, which
physicists use, are
called Goldilocks
planets because
they're just right.
The thing is is that we feel
that these civilizations are
out there, that probably the
universe is teeming with life.
Now some of it will be
more primitive than us,
but some of it might
be more advanced.
>> NOORY: That's right.
>> MALLETT: In fact, they could
be there for millions of years.
>> NOORY: Well, we're only
4 and 1/2 billion years old.
>> MALLETT: That's right.
>> NOORY: The universe
is almost 14 billion.
>> MALLETT: That's right.
>> NOORY: And let me
ask you something, Ron,
as we get into this.
How long does it
take life to develop
on any kind of a planet that
might be in the Goldilock zone?
>> MALLETT: Well, if you
look at our own planet--
I don't know the exact
numbers, but life is a very,
very recent portion
of our epoch.
It's just a very, very
small portion of it.
And so now it's not just
simply the formation of life,
but you have to talk about
technological development
of the life, but not only
the technological development
of the life but the type of
civilizations that developed.
And the reason why
I'm saying this,
there's actually
been studies on this.
And by technological
development,
I mean when they've
gotten to a point where
we are, where we have
nuclear weapons have
these planets blown themselves
up?
>>NOORY: That's possible.
>> MALLETT: That's possible.
So you actually have to
take that into account.
You actually have
to take into account
those civilizations
that have gone insane,
essentially, and
destroyed themselves
or those civilizations
who have gotten
beyond that, who have matured.
>> NOORY: Sure.
If they do.
>> MALLETT: If they do.
But now if you're
talking about that,
then you're getting smaller
and smaller and smaller
possibility, if they're
anything like us, OK?
But they may not be.
>> NOORY: But it's conceivable,
if they're still alive,
they could be billions
of years ahead of us.
>> MALLETT: They could be.
Well, they definitely could
be millions or thousands
of years ahead of us.
And that means that if they've
developed time travel--
Let's suppose that
a civilization
has developed time travel.
Let's say a million years.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> MALLETT: The thing is is
that their device would have
the same limitation, but
they could have traveled back
in time and may have visited us.
But this wouldn't
be from our future.
This would have been
from their future.
And once we encounter
them, we might
be able to use their time
machine to go back and visit
ancient civilizations,
to visit the past.
>> NOORY: That's a good idea.
People who witness
extraterrestrials
that they think are in craft
that seem to just disappear,
is it possible those
are time machines?
>> MALLETT: Well,
see, here's the thing.
I'm a physicist, and
one of the things that's
important to realize
is verifiability, OK?
For instance, in talking
about time travel
based on Einstein's
theories, the experiments,
like the ones that have been
done at the Naval Observatory
or the ones that
are done at CERN,
these are repeatable
experiments.
So that's why physicists
believe in them.
The thing with the
UFOs, now, yes, it
is a possibility that life out
there could have visited us,
but the universe is so
vast it's hard to know.
>> NOORY: Sure.
>> MALLETT: So
without verifiability,
which means literally having
some sort of real hard evidence
that can be examined by
the scientific community,
then that's an open question,
and that's not something that
most of the community
would take seriously.
And that's an interesting
divide because, yes,
the scientific
community believes
that the universe probably
is teeming with life.
Whether that life has visited
us is an open question.
>> NOORY: Right.
But again, could these be time
machines that we're seeing?
>> MALLETT: In principle-- and
I see where you're going here--
in principle, yes,
it's a possibility.
>> NOORY: Because they
flash in and flash out.
>> MALLETT: Right.
But once again, verifiability.
>> NOORY: Absolutely.
I understand.
>> MALLETT: Right.
>> NOORY: You're a scientist.
>> NOORY: You want proof,
hard data and stuff like that.
>> MALLETT: But yes, in
principle it could be possible.
>> NOORY: You want to go back
into time and see your father.
>> MALLETT: That's right.
>> NOORY: You want to warn
him of his medical condition
to help him.
There's an old saying,
what is has been.
The past is the past.
You can't alter
things that have been.
You can only go forward.
Realistically, is that
the same as time travel,
you can really only go forward,
what has happened has happened?
>> MALLETT: No.
According to Einstein's
general theory of relativity,
you can go into the past.
And there's more than just
simply my way of looking at it.
I should mention that I'm
not the only researcher who's
looking at using
Einstein's theories.
There are people at, for
instance Kip Thorne and his
group or a related group, who've
looked at using the notion
of wormholes as a possibility
for travelling back in time.
And there's a physicist at
Princeton, Richard Gott, who's
looked at the
notion of using what
are known as cosmic
strings to go back.
So there are other
people who are
looking at this possibility.
So as far as
Einstein's theories,
we can go back to the past.
The question is is
that-- it becomes two.
One becomes a question
of morality and ethics.
Should we go back into the past?
>> NOORY: Should we
go back and alter it?
>> MALLETT: Right.
And alter it.
The other question is
is that-- at least I
think that's important-- if
we go back into the past,
is it the past that
we think it would be?
Now the reason why I phrase it
that way is the fact that we've
been talking about
relativity physics, OK?
There's actually another
pillar of modern physics
that's just as
important as relativity.
And in fact, for our
technological civilization,
it's actually even
more important.
And that's quantum mechanics.
And everything, our PCs,
our laptop computers,
all of these things are
based on quantum theory.
But quantum theory's a
very, very strange thing.
In Newton's theory, you
can make exact predictions
of what's going to happen
next if you have all
the information about
the present moment.
In quantum mechanics,
not only can't you
get all the
necessary information
about the present
moment, but you can only
predict the
probability of what's
going to happen into the future.
And this has led to a
very, very odd notion that
sounds like science
fiction, but it's real.
It's called parallel
universe theory.
>> NOORY: Exactly.
The multiverses, right?
>> MALLETT: Right.
And the thing is is that--
>> NOORY: Good point.
>> MALLETT: --there was
a physicist at Princeton.
His name was Hugh Everett III.
Back in 1957, he decided
to apply quantum mechanics
to the universe as a whole.
And what he found
from his equations
was the fact that it made
the following very strange
prediction, that
whatever can happen
that has an alternative for
happening, both of these
will play out.
To give you a specific example
that I like to use a lot,
and that is suppose
at lunch today
you're trying to
decide to have a fish
sandwich or a cheeseburger.
At the moment,
there's a George Noory
that has chosen
the fish sandwich.
There's a George Noory that
has chosen the cheeseburger.
>> NOORY: In the multiverse.
>> MALLETT: In the other--
right-- separate universe, OK?
The thing is is that they
don't know about each other,
but they are there,
and they're very real.
And this happens for
every single decision
every single one of us makes.
This is mind-boggling,
but it doesn't even
have to do with humans,
I should mention.
>> NOORY: Could there be
a third multiverse where
there's a George Noory who
is getting on a plane to come
to Denver to do "Beyond
Belief" in the past,
and he hasn't gotten here
yet, to interview Ron Mallett?
>> MALLETT: Well, the thing
is is that when you're talking
about-- yes, there could be.
But those are part of all of
these parallel universes, OK?
And the thing is
is that that leads
to an interesting
proposition, though,
because what does
this mean for time?
And it was a physicist,
in fact, at Oxford--
his name was David
Deutsch-- and what
he did was he worked
out the mathematics.
So what happens if
you apply this notion
of parallel universes
to time travel?
And what he found
was the following,
that when you travel back in
time, you arrive in the past,
but there's a split
of the universe.
You arrive in a
parallel universe,
and in that parallel universe
you can do whatever you want.
But in the original
universe you came from,
it isn't affected at all.
>> NOORY: I see.
>> MALLETT: And this has
important implications
for what's known as the
grandfather paradox.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> MALLETT: In the form
that I like to think of it,
it says that suppose you go
back into the past and you do
something like preventing your
grandparents from meeting each
other.
Well, if they don't
meet each other,
they don't have your
parents, and if they
don't have your parents,
your parents don't have you.
And if they don't have you, how
did you go back into the past?
>> NOORY: How did you come back?
>> MALLETT: Exactly.
And so that's called
the grandfather paradox.
>> NOORY: Do you disappear,
like in "Back to the Future"--
>> MALLETT: That's the question.
>> NOORY: --where Marty McFly
was disappearing on that
photograph--
>> MALLETT: Exactly.
>> NOORY: --until he
changed some things?
>> MALLETT: Well, in
fact, that's the thing.
And that's where the parallel
universe theory comes in.
Because what it says is that
that won't happen, because when
you go back into
the past, you would
arrive in the past of
a different universe.
And in that past, you
could do something
like preventing your
grandparents from meeting
each other, you would
just find yourself
locked into a weird universe
in which you were never born.
>> NOORY: You were
never born in that one.
>> MALLETT: In that one.
But the other universe
that splits off
is the one in which
you don't arrive in,
and so it gives
rise to the history
of what we're familiar with, OK?
So that might actually
be what happens to us.
We don't know, but
that's a real possibility
based on the solid physics
of quantum mechanics.
The thing is is that as far
as going back into the past
and changing things, that's
where this other question comes
in.
Because there is this thing
of the butterfly effect,
that is to say that when you
do something in the past,
it has more implications
than just what you did.
It can change and
have a ripple effect
that can alter whole lives.
>> NOORY: If we wanted to go
back and kill Hitler for some
reason, it could have other
effects for the future, right?
>> MALLETT: That's right.
That's right.
And the thing is is that-- I
won't go into it because one
would want to do certain
things like that, perhaps.
>> NOORY: They'd just
do a lot of things.
>> MALLETT: For good reasons.
>> NOORY: I want
old lottery numbers.
>> MALLETT: Right.
And the thing is is that, in
fact, this notion of correcting
the past-- "The Outer Limits"
had a very great episode-- it's
one of my favorites-- but
it brings up this thing,
because it actually
had this FBI agent that
was had the possibility
of going back
into the past to correct things.
And it leads to a
very strange thing,
because the FBI agent would
only wait to find out,
for instance, if it
was a serial killer,
the agent would only
wait to find out
if the courts pronounced
this person guilty.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> MALLETT: OK?
>> NOORY: OK.
>> MALLETT: So that they
felt they had now the moral--
>> NOORY: He wanted
the right person.
>> MALLETT: Right.
They wanted to make sure
they had the right person.
And then what they did was
to go back into the past
before that person had started
their serial killing career
and take care of him.
>> NOORY: And get it.
>> MALLETT: Right.
>> NOORY: Get him
out or whatever.
>> MALLETT: Right.
So it blended this interesting
notion of morality and ethics
in quite an intriguing matter.
But it will open up that
whole interesting thing.
And what will show is that
when time travel does become
possible, it's going
to be regulated,
just like we have
air travel regulated.
There's going to be a
time travel regulation.
>> NOORY: We can't just jump
into our little device and go.
>> MALLETT: That's right.
It's going to be
something that's
going to have to be regulated.
>> NOORY: Organized.
>> MALLETT: Exactly.
And that's good.
>> NOORY: Well,
that's a good point.
Because if everybody had
a time traveling device,
everybody could
screw up the past.
That would then screw up the
future simultaneously, right?
>> MALLETT: That's right.
That's right.
>> NOORY: Everything would
be played around with.
>> MALLETT: That's right.
>> NOORY: Tell me
about the wormholes.
I've always wondered what the
heck is on the other side.
>> MALLETT: Oh, yeah.
Well, the thing
is is that that's
something we don't
really understand.
A black hole is really
one mouth of a wormhole.
And just to remind you what a
black hole is, all stars work
by burning hydrogen, and
that means that what happens
is the hydrogen atoms
collide and form helium,
and that gives off
energy that we have.
>> NOORY: Right, we see it.
>> MALLETT: Right.
The thing is is eventually
that fuel will be used up,
and the star will
start to collapse.
When it does, the
gravity around the star
will start to get so great
that the very light that tries
to get away from the star--
>> NOORY: Can't.
>> MALLETT: --gets pulled back.
And so if all the light
gets pulled back--
>> NOORY: Unbelievable.
>> MALLETT: --then
what do you see?
You see nothing.
That's what a black hole is.
Now the question
is is what happens
on the other side of that?
Well, if light can't get
out and you happen to go in,
then you're in trouble
because you can't get out.
>> NOORY: Do you get torn apart?
>> MALLETT: Well,
that's one scenario.
Because what
happens is even here
on the surface of the Earth
because our feet are closer
to the center of the
Earth than our head,
gravity actually
pulls more strongly--
>> NOORY: Constantly.
>> MALLETT: --on our feet.
Right.
But we never notice it.
But if you go into a
black hole, that effect
becomes so exaggerated
that your feet
start accelerating
towards the black hole
faster than your head.
>> NOORY: And you pull them up.
>> MALLETT: And you would be
shredded like spaghetti as you
go in.
That wouldn't be the end of it.
Your molecules would start
getting shredded, then
your atoms.
You would end up as
an energy soup going
towards the center
of the black hole.
>> NOORY: Instantly, probably.
>> MALLETT: That's right.
The thing is, however--
>> NOORY: That's
theoretical, though.
>> MALLETT: That's theoretical.
Now, however, some
people have conjectured
that two other
possibilities may exist.
One is that once you go into the
black hole that it's actually
connected by a tunnel to another
black hole so that you go
in-- And in fact,
you could think of--
>> NOORY: For another universe?
>> NOORY: Well, that's it.
Exactly
>> NOORY: I did do
well in physics.
>> MALLETT: Right.
There are two possibilities.
The other mouth could
be in our universe,
or the other mouth could
be in another universe.
>> NOORY: In another universe.
>> MALLETT: Exactly.
And so the question
is is when you go in,
assuming that the black
hole is large enough
and that you don't
get shredded, then
you could actually end
up in another universe.
And in fact, some people
think that our Big Bang might
actually be the result of
this kind of a process,
that what's happening is that
the other universe-- in fact,
there was a theory that's
been developed by a--
>> NOORY: Gets
sucked into there?
>> MALLETT: Right.
Gets sucked in there.
And so the Big Bang
is actually the result
of another universe--
>> NOORY: Being spit out.
>> MALLETT: Right.
And that we're the child
universe of another universe.
In fact, this has
been developed as
a serious mathematical theory.
>> NOORY: How many dark holes
are there in our universe?
>> MALLETT: Well, we
don't know how many.
>> NOORY: Are they
all over the place?
>> MALLETT: They're
all over the place.
>> NOORY: How do we
know they're there?
>> MALLETT: Well,
that's a good point.
In fact, if you can't see it,
how do you know it's there?
>> NOORY: Yeah.
>> MALLETT: Well,
nature's been kind to us.
In fact, the way we found
the first black hole, which
is called Cygnus X-1, which is
about 10,000 lightyears away
from us, is the fact that there
are many star systems in which
two stars orbit each other.
It would be weird-- these are
called binary star systems.
>> NOORY: And that
happens a lot.
>> MALLETT: That happens a lot.
Our system has only one sun,
but it would be strange,
because if we were part
of a binary star system,
we would actually see
two suns up in the sky.
But the way they detected
the first black hole
was that there was a star which
was called a blue giant star,
and it literally has a blue
cast to it, and it's gigantic.
If you plopped it into the
center of our solar system,
it would swallow up
the inner planets.
>> NOORY: And it's
nearing its end.
>> MALLETT: Well, it's actually
not-- It's nearing its end,
but for a different reason.
Because what happens
is it's being
orbited by an
invisible companion.
The reason why we
can see the companion
is the gases are being pulled
off of the blue giant star
into this invisible companion.
>> NOORY: OK.
>> MALLETT: And as the gases
are being funneled into it,
the gases heat up, and
they create a halo.
You've seen these beautiful
artists' conceptions sometimes
where they actually show this
black center, and they show--
>> NOORY: With a halo around it.
>> MALLETT: --this halo around.
>> NOORY: It's like
a cloud or something.
>> MALLETT: That halo is
actually what's called
an accretion disc, and it's
due to gases that are actually
coming from the outside.
In this particular
case, the gases
are coming from the
blue giant star,
and they're being funneled in.
As they're being funneled
in, the black hole
is getting bigger and
bigger and bigger.
Eventually what will happen
is that the black hole
will swallow up the
blue giant star.
But the way we were able
to see the black hole
was because we were able
to see the blue giant star,
but the blue giant
star was wobbling.
And when they
looked at the x-rays
coming off of the
invisible companion,
you can actually see the x-rays,
except for at the very center
nothing is coming out.
>> NOORY: Is it
like a vacuum, Ron,
where it's just sucking in
anything that floats by?
>> MALLETT: Well, the thing is
is that if it gets close enough
it is.
>> NOORY: If our galaxy-- and
they do say there are dark
holes in our own galaxy,
in the middle of it.
>> MALLETT: In the
middle of our galaxy,
they feel that there is actually
a super massive black hole.
>> NOORY: What is keeping
everything from going into it?
>> MALLETT: Well, if you were
far enough away from it--
in other words, if there was
a black hole in this room,
for example, and you
were outside of it--
you would actually have to
get close enough to it--
>> NOORY: To get pulled in.
>> MALLETT: --to get pulled in.
It would not just
happen automatically.
>> NOORY: OK.
>> MALLETT: You would actually
have to get close enough to it.
>> NOORY: So it doesn't have
a vacuum cleaner effect.
>> MALLETT: It doesn't.
No, it doesn't.
>> NOORY: OK.
>> MALLETT: It's just that
once you get too close,
then all of a sudden--
>> NOORY: Then it will.
>> MALLETT: Yeah.
In fact, that's why the
name of it as being a hole
is a good name.
Although when they have
the conception, sometimes
people will think
of it as being just
like a two-dimensional thing.
It actually would be
more like a black sphere.
>> NOORY: All right.
So let's say a solar system
just seemed to be revolving
and got close to this.
Would the pulling in of it
be immediate or gradual?
>> MALLETT: It would be gradual,
until you got right near
the star.
In fact, this is why
we see black holes,
because of the fact that these
accretion discs are there.
And they're pretty stable,
until you get into it.
Once you get into
it, then that's it.
>> NOORY: So all that matter
that would have gotten sucked
into this dark hole,
does it just dissipate?
What happens to it?
>> MALLETT: That's
one of the puzzles.
That's actually
one of the puzzles
that hasn't been answered.
We don't know what's going on.
As I said, there
was this conjecture
of wormholes being
connected with it
that could lead
to other universes
or to other parts
of other universes.
>> NOORY: --send a craft into
one, just to see what happens.
>> MALLETT: Well, I
think one would do that,
but you would want
to do it with robots.
>> NOORY: Not people.
>> MALLETT: Not people.
>> MALLETT: The problem is is
that if it actually is just
a black hole then you won't
get any information out,
because they can't transmit it.
As soon as they cross what's
known as an event horizon,
then the signal's cut
off, and you would not
be able to know what's going--
>> NOORY: You have no
idea what's going on.
>> MALLETT: Right.
Exactly.
So you wouldn't know
whether they ended up
into another
universe or ended up
at some other portion of space.
What we might try to do is
create a small wormhole,
if we could figure
out how to do that,
just to experiment with that.
>> NOORY: Like
something CERN could do?
>> MALLETT: Not necessarily.
However, it's interesting
that when they were setting up
CERN for a very long time
people were concerned
that, when they
turned the machine on,
you would get small black holes.
>> NOORY: We did that.
On Coast to Coast--
>> MALLETT: That's right.
>> NOORY: --we talked about it--
>> MALLETT: Exactly.
>> NOORY: --that it would
suck in the whole planet.
>> MALLETT: Exactly.
And to me, that was
more PR to get people--
>> NOORY: It was great radio.
>> MALLETT: Right.
To keep people interested
in what was happening there.
And of course, it
never happened.
The machine functions perfectly
well without these things
being created.
So I don't think that we
can just-- it's not clear
how we could just simply do
it, simply in a trustable way.
>> NOORY: There's
an individual--
I don't know if you've ever
heard the name John Titor.
>> MALLETT: Oh, yes.
>> NOORY: Do you
know about John,
the 2034 time traveler
who apparently came back,
talked about a lot of things
that strangely are happening
now, civil unrest all around
the place and things like that?
When you, as a physicist,
an expert in time travel,
see stories like
that, do you say,
well, this was pretty
well-conceived,
this is possible?
Or do you say, what a hoax?
>> MALLETT: Well, actually--
>> NOORY: Or are you John Titor?
>> MALLETT: No.
I say this is a
bunch of nonsense,
to use a polite word on TV.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
A little fooey, as we call it.
>> MALLETT: Right.
But no, the thing
is is that that
falls in the category of
what I was saying earlier,
that if you encounter this
person who claims they are,
be polite to them, OK?
>> NOORY: Just in case, right?
>> MALLETT: No, just in
case that they're crazy.
Because you don't know what
their response is going to be
if you're not-- that's
what I mean by be polite--
>> NOORY: Good point.
>> MALLETT: --is that you really
don't know how this person is
going to react if
you're skeptical.
>> NOORY: Right.
But as I said, the thing is--
>> NOORY: They could go crazy.
>> MALLETT: Right, exactly.
But the next thing--
and to me, in science,
and it's really
important for the public
to realize that, if a
claim is made in science,
it needs to be verified.
If I've made this
claim about being
able to mathematically show--
>> NOORY: You've got to show it.
>> MALLETT: If anyone wants,
they can go to the "Technical
Journal."
In fact, I have the
"Technical Journal"
articles, which are
refereed, posted on my site.
So not only are these
popular discussions
that we have are out
there, but if they
want to see the nuts and bolts
behind my work, it's out there.
And the type of work that
I'm doing as far as showing
circulating light, when
that experiment's done,
it'll be verifiable.
It'll be repeatable.
This person needs to
show their machine.
In other words, you cannot
materialize into something.
So whoever it is that claims
they're-- they actually have
to--
>> NOORY: Show it to me.
>> MALLETT: Show it to me.
That's right.
Exactly.
And to me, that's the real test.
If this person claims
that, say, OK, show me.
>> NOORY: I was at an
event years ago, Ron,
and some guy came up to me,
really clandestined, and said,
I've invented perpetual
motion, a machine.
And I said, you're kidding me.
And he said, yeah.
And he said, I've got
pictures of the machine.
Can I show it to you?
And I said, sure.
And he said, you've
got to be confidential,
and I said, no problem.
And he reaches into his
pocket, and I'm going, oh god,
what's he got in there?
He pulls out some
Polaroid pictures
of a machine made with
toilet bowl parts.
And I'm looking at
this and saying,
this is your perpetual
motion machine?
He said, yeah, I've
got it at home.
And I said, but it's made
with toilet bowl parts,
and he said, yeah, I know.
And I said, does it work?
He says, well, no, not yet.
I haven't perfected it yet.
I bet we could come across
a lot of those people who
claim to have time
traveling devices, right?
>> MALLETT: Exactly.
And haven't perfected it yet.
Oh, that's a neat story--
>> NOORY: Toilet bowl parts.
>> MALLETT: --by the way.
But that is the thing.
If a claim is
made-- and this has
to do not just with the
stuff that I'm doing,
but even the reason why
scientists now seriously
believe in the possibility
extraterrestrial life
is the fact that they've
seen extrasolar planets.
>> NOORY: That's right.
>> MALLETT: It's actually
something that's demonstrable.
>> NOORY: And the soup's
the same, I think.
>> MALLETT: Right, exactly.
>> NOORY: It's out there.
>> MALLETT: And it doesn't
matter whether we're talking
about this or the domain of
medicine or even the financial
claims people make.
I'm going to make a mint
for you if you do this.
>> NOORY: Would you be surprised
if the laws of physics changed
throughout the universe?
Because I think it's the same--
>> MALLETT: No.
>> NOORY: --wherever you go.
>>MALLETT: Yeah.
The problem is is
that it would lead
to an inconsistency
between different parts
of the universe.
In a way, that's almost
like having hot water
next to cold water.
In other words, some
sort of an equilibrium
would have to occur.
The thing is is that when we
look out into the universe,
we're able to make predictions
about the stars out there.
We actually see the elements in
these stars that we see here.
In other words, we're
able to make predictions
about what's happening out in
other parts of the universe.
If the laws of physics were
different in the other parts
of the universe, then the
predictions that we make
and the behavior that
we will expect to see
would be something
that wouldn't be.
>> NOORY: You couldn't do it.
>> MALLETT: Exactly.
That's fascinating.
Ron, for people who want
to get a hold of you
or to monitor what you
do, where do they go?
>> MALLETT: Well, they can go to
my physics department website.
It's www.physics.uconn--
and that's U-C-O-N-N-- .edu.
And I should mention
that the book
is available from
amazon.com as well.
>> NOORY: It's a great
read, by the way.
>> MALLETT: Thank you.
You enlighten us, and it's
always fun talking to you.
>> MALLETT: Oh,
thank you very much.
>> NOORY: Dr. Ron Mallett.
>> MALLETT: Thank you.
>> NOORY: Thank you so much.
Time travel.
It's not possible today, but
it could be possible tomorrow.
And if it does,
where would you go?
Would you go into the
future or back in time?
I'm George Norry, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."